#### Is MicroService Architecture "Cloud Native"? Not Enough To be "Cloud Native"

One common characteristic that frequently shows up as we survey definitions of "cloud native" from various vendors across the industry is the architectural technique "Microservices". Many definitions imply that an application deployment must honour a Microservice architectural style to be considered a "cloud native" deployment. 

This assertion isn't coincidental, if we take a typical definition and description of microservices [Martin Fowler on Microservices](https://martinfowler.com/microservices/), we find that this architectural technique lends itself well to the characteristics that we have identified as composing a "cloud native" deployment. For instance, proper microservice architecture techniques calls for single responsibility principles to be acknowledged featuring everything from independent deployment pipelines that lend themselves to notions of elasticity, resilience as the microservice can only depend on itself (and must act defensively as a result), and likely an API as consuming the microservice is not the responsibility of the microservice itself (i.e. something else should provide choreography for domain specific features). 

As mentioned microservices lend themselves well to notions of elasticity, and other "cloud native" characteristics and as a result it is tempting to label them "cloud native" and even go so far as to suggest that "cloud native" deployments should respect this architectural view. However; microservices, in and of themselves, are lacking in certain characteristics that are critical to notions of being "cloud native". Initially, it is worth noting that for things like elasticity, being location agnostic, etc., microservice architecture does not offer these characteristics in and of itself nor does it per se offer notions of on demand-scaling or resilience mechanics in and of themselves. Microservice architecture must rely on completementary tooling, or platforms to accomplish these characteristics. If we were to simply decompose a feature into a small unit of deployment and deploy to a traditional subsystem, our microservice in this case would be extremely lacking in the "cloud native" feature department, as it would lack elasticity, location transparency, and notions of high availability. 

As a result, simply establishing a bounded context as a means to determine decomposition barriers, and deploying the microservice, is not enough to meet the definition of "Cloud Native", as these missing characeristics are core to our notions of what is and isn't *"Cloud Native"*.  

Going further, any microservice architecture that hopes to achieve a label of "Cloud Native" must be accompanied by underlying platforms (both middleware platforms, all the way down to the underlying cloud platform that they are running on) must be bundled with or complemented by other platform tooling that enables notions of elasticity, on demand scaling, manageability and observability, location agnosticism, and api based communications apparatus. 

This has some likely implications for microservice deployment which we'll discuss in subsequent sections. 